SRE Challenge
-------------

Hello! This README outlines two exercises and should be accompanied by a zip
file containing the initial code. Each exercise is representative of a real
problem we have run across in our time as SREs.

Solutions to each exercise will be evaluated on the following criteria:

-   Completeness

-   Correctness

-   Tests

-   Legibility

-   Aesthetics

If you are unable to resolve the issues there could be good reasons (it could be
our fault) so we would still like to talk through your problem solving.

Pre-requisites
--------------

The project provided was built with, and tested against,
[Docker](https://docker.com/) *19.03.2* and [Docker
Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) *1.24.1*. To avoid complications, we
strongly encourage you to use an equivalent installation. Each application
running in a container is isolated from any local version concerns.

If you absolutely prefer to experiment with the web application on your
workstation, please note that it was confirmed against
[Ruby](https://ruby-lang.org/) *2.4.2*. We recommend
[rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) and [Bundler](https://bundler.io)
*1.16.0*.

Submission
----------

To submit your work please create a *private* repo at github.com or gitlab.com
with your changes and invite the following usernames to your project so they can
review the changes:

-   @bobeckert

-   @AaronEast

-   @jonnymccullagh

-   @magdallena.trajkovska (gitlab) @magdallenatr (github)

-   @jgjorgji-slice

-   @kaircosta (gitlab) @hvithval (github)

Exercises
---------

The below exercises involve troubleshooting and augmenting an application stack
composed of:

1.  a [Sinatra](http://sinatrarb.com) HTTP API

2.  being served by [Puma](https://puma.io)

3.  all fronted by [nginx](https://nginx.com)

To ensure your focus on the intended challenges, please note that the following
components *do not need to be modified* to complete these exercises:

-   any existing Ruby source code

-   the ruby and nginx base images

### Part 1: Finish Whats Been Started

The `sre` web service is an older backend service. To date, it had a
"traditional" Ruby lifecycle: Bundler for local development, gem for packaging,
and Puppet for deployment to EC2 hosts. In an effort to improve our developer
workflow and modernize our operational model, the team decided to update the
project to use Docker.

An industrious engineer recently added Docker Compose to tackle local
development. Being new to Docker, however, they're wrestling a bit with the
wiring between containers. While a `docker-compose up` will run both nginx and
the `sre` web service, the former is unable to proxy requests to the latter.

Troubleshoot and remediate the issue with container networking. In the end, you
should be able to successfully hit nginx as a proxy to the web service:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ bash
❯ curl localhost/sres
{"sres":["bob","linda","tina","gene","louise"]}⏎
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Part 2: And Now for Something Completely Different

With the stack now functioning in Docker, there is an early opportunity to make
it more cloud-native. The `sre` web service exposes a `/health` endpoint which
had previously been used by load balancers and host agents to gather insights:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ bash
❯ curl localhost/health
{"health":true,"metrics":{"requestLatency":0.6009920113999009,"dbLatency":0.28656959238583435,"cacheLatency":0.697799454630009}}⏎
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The team would like to use a container sidecar in this new architecture to
maintain parity.

Please build -- and test the functionality of! -- a sidecar container. A
specification follows. Once complete, the container should be added to Docker
Compose to be brought up with nginx and the `sre` web service.

#### `sre` sidecar specification

The intent of this sidecar is to facilitate the health checking and insights
gathering functions of the load balancers and metrics agents that preceded it.
In order to do so, it will need to:

1.  Poll `/health` on the web service every 10 seconds

2.  Output the average, minimum, and maximum of each metric every minute to
    stdout

3.  Exit with a non-zero exit code if `/health` does not return 200
